Identity and Access Management is an entire topic on it's own so I'm not going to attempt to do it justice. In my mind though I've got the following requirements:

* Minimise the number of logins and/or passwords that users need to remember (ideally just one).
* A single source of truth for users identities for the purposes of authentication (i.e. is James who he says he is).
* This source of truth should support multiple authentication protocols seamlessly (many applications have different standards such as LDAP, Oauth/OIDC, SAML) so there's only a single integration point for applications.
* Additional security, via multi-factor, should be available for administrators.
* The solution should be able to integrate with Kubernetes such that users can obtain tokens for the API through their standard login credentials and can access appropraite resources (authorisation) such as the dashboard.
* We should be able to integrate OS logins (specifically Linux and MacOS)

We're going to create a namespace `auth` to hold our authorisation workloads.

```bash
kubectl create ns auth
```

???+ important
    Whilst the setup might initially seem overly convulted (by using both OpenLDAP **and** Keycloak) there is a method to the madness... A number of applications, especially those in the `homelab/enterprise` space will support external authentication providers but may only support LDAP (as it has been around for longer and is more of a de facto standard in the enterprise space). 
    
    As a result, we'd have to replicate a load of configuration, [ACLs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access-control_list) etc. from Keycloak into another user management solution. Supporting (and writing back into LDAP) as the lowest common denominator means that things such as Groups are consistent everywhere and only need to be changed/defined in one area.